README.md, before:

# Optimism Infrastructure

This repository is an extension of the [Optimism monorepo](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism) and contains the infrastructure that supports the Optimism ecosystem.

## Components
- op-acceptor: Network Acceptance Tester: A tool that tests the network acceptance of devnets. (See [op-acceptor/README.md](./op-acceptor/README.md) or [devdocs/pm](https://devdocs.optimism.io/pm/acceptance-testing.html) for more information)
- op-conductor-mon: Monitors multiple op-conductor instances and provides a unified interface for reporting metrics.
- op-signer: Thin gateway that supports various RPC endpoints to sign payloads from op-stack components using private key stored in KMS.
- op-ufm: User facing monitoring creates transactions at regular intervals and observe transaction propagation across different RPC providers.

## Release Process

For the thoroughly defined process releasing services in this repository, please refer to [this document](./RELEASE.md).

Commit message:

feat: introduce mise for tool version management (#452)
Introducing mise for tool management. It's optional to adopt within a sub-project,
but op-acceptor will start adopting it.

* Adds mise to the top-level repo
* Adds mise to op-acceptor
* Deprecates justfile in op-acceptor
* Adjusts CI to install and use mise, using the github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism monorepo approach
* Updates op-conductor-mon to Go 1.23 to be compatible with CI (required a workaround for github.com/fjl/memsize)
* Updates op-conductor-ops to Docker base image to a more stable newer one

README.md, after:

# Optimism Infrastructure

This repository is an extension of the [Optimism monorepo](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism) and contains the infrastructure that supports the Optimism ecosystem.

## Components
- op-acceptor: Network Acceptance Tester: A tool that tests the network acceptance of devnets. (See [op-acceptor/README.md](./op-acceptor/README.md) or [devdocs/pm](https://devdocs.optimism.io/pm/acceptance-testing.html) for more information)
- op-conductor-mon: Monitors multiple op-conductor instances and provides a unified interface for reporting metrics.
- op-signer: Thin gateway that supports various RPC endpoints to sign payloads from op-stack components using private key stored in KMS.
- op-ufm: User facing monitoring creates transactions at regular intervals and observe transaction propagation across different RPC providers.

## Development

This project uses [mise](https://mise.jdx.dev/) to manage tool versions, ensuring consistency between local development and CI environments.
Each subproject can, optionally, adopt mise by adding a `mise.toml` configuration. This will automatically inherit from the root mise.toml.

## Release Process

For the thoroughly defined process releasing services in this repository, please refer to [this document](./RELEASE.md).
