op-acceptor/README.md, before:

# Network Acceptance Tester (op-acceptor)
op-acceptor is a tool to run checks against a network to determine if it is ready for production. It helps ensure your network meets all necessary requirements before deployment.
The checks it runs are standard Go tests.

## Concepts

### Test Discovery
op-acceptor discovers tests. You simply need to provide a path to a directory containing your tests. op-acceptor will discover all tests within that directory and also those within any subdirectories.

### Test Grouping
1. **Test** - An individual check that validates a specific aspect of your network
2. **Suite** - A logical grouping of related tests
3. **Gate** - A high-level collection of suites and/or tests that represent a complete validation scenario


## Contributing

Please note that this project is under active development and the API may evolve. We welcome all contributions and appreciate your interest in improving op-acceptor!

### Adding a new test/suite/gate
All tests, suites, and gates are defined in a `validators.yaml` file. The filename is not important.
For an example `validators.yaml`, see [example-validators.yaml](./example-validators.yaml).

**Gate**
A gate is a collection of suites and/or tests that represent a complete validation scenario. A gate can inherit from one or more other gates.

```yaml
# Example gate definition
- id: alphanet
  description: "Alphanet validation gate"
  inherits: ["localnet"]
  suites:
    - id: interop
      description: "Interop suite"
      tests:
        - id: TestInteropSystem
```

**Suite**
A suite is a collection of tests that validate a specific aspect of your network. It's a convenience mechanism for grouping tests together.

```yaml
# Example suite definition
- id: interop
  description: "Interop suite"
  tests:
    - id: TestInteropSystem
```

**Test**
A test is a single check that validates a specific aspect of your network.
A description is optional.
A package is optional. If not provided, the test will be searched for. This lengthens the runtime, so we recommend providing the package.
If a package is provided and no name is provided, op-acceptor runs all tests in the package.

```yaml
# Run test 'TestInteropSystem' in package 'github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop'
- name: TestInteropSystem
  description: "Test the interop system"
  package: github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop
```

```yaml
# Run all tests in package 'github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop'
- package: github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop
```

## Development

### Prerequisites
* [Go](https://go.dev/dl/) 1.22+
* [Just](https://just.systems/)

### Getting Started
Build the binary:
```bash
just build
```

Run tests:
```bash
just test
```

Run op-acceptor:
```bash
DEVNET_ENV_URL=devnets/alpaca-devnet.json # path to the devnet manifest
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \                  # The gate to run
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \       # Path to the directory containing your tests
  --validators validators.yaml \    # Path to the validator definitions
```

By default, op-acceptor will run tests once and then exit, which is ideal for CI/CD pipelines and one-off testing.

If you want to run tests periodically (for continuous monitoring), specify a run interval:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \
  --validators validators.yaml \
  --run-interval 1h                # Run tests every hour
```

By default, op-acceptor sets the `DEVNET_EXPECT_PRECONDITIONS_MET` environment variable. This instructs [devnet-sdk](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/tree/develop/devnet-sdk) to make tests fail if preconditions are not met, rather than skip. If you wish to bypass this and instead allow tests to skip when preconditions are not met, use the `--allow-skips` flag:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \
  --validators validators.yaml \
  --allow-skips                    # Allow tests to skip when preconditions aren't met
```

Want to monitor your validation runs? Start our local monitoring stack:
```bash
just start-monitoring  # Launches Prometheus and Grafana alongside op-acceptor
```

### Log Management

By default, test output from all tests is saved to log files, while only test results summaries are shown in the terminal. This makes the output much more manageable, especially when running many tests.

Test logs are saved in a timestamped directory under the log directory path. The default log directory is `logs`, but you can specify a custom location:

```bash
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \
  --validators validators.yaml \
  --logdir /path/to/logs          # Custom log directory
```

Each test run creates a directory with the following structure:
```
testrun-<run-id>/
├── tests/               # All test logs, including passing tests
├── failed/              # Just the logs for failed tests (hard links)
└── summary.log          # Overall test run summary
```

In CI environments, you can easily access all failed test logs with:
```bash
cat /path/to/logs/testrun-*/failed/*
```

### Create a release
Releases are created by pushing tags which triggers a CircleCI pipeline.
One simply needs to create an annotated tag (with a semantic version) and push it.
Note that the CircleCI workflow will require manual approval before it will publish the new release.

```
# Determine the latest version
git tag -l --sort=-v:refname | grep op-acceptor

# Set you target version (increase the latest appropriately)
# and add a useful summary
VERSION=v0.1.6
SUMMARY="Some useful summary of changes"

# Tag your release
git tag -a op-acceptor/$VERSION -m "$SUMMARY"
git push origin op-acceptor/$VERSION
```

Finally, approve the hold on the 'release' workflow in [CircleCI](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/ethereum-optimism/infra)

### Future Development
We track our public roadmap and issues on [Github](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/infra/issues). Feel free to:
* Submit bug reports
* Propose new features
* Contribute improvements
* Join discussions

Your feedback and contributions help make op-acceptor better for everyone!

Commit message:

feat(op-acceptor): logging; produce raw Go JSON event logs.
These can be used with other, standard, Go tooling.

op-acceptor/README.md, after:

# Network Acceptance Tester (op-acceptor)
op-acceptor is a tool to run checks against a network to determine if it is ready for production. It helps ensure your network meets all necessary requirements before deployment.
The checks it runs are standard Go tests.

## Concepts

### Test Discovery
op-acceptor discovers tests. You simply need to provide a path to a directory containing your tests. op-acceptor will discover all tests within that directory and also those within any subdirectories.

### Test Grouping
1. **Test** - An individual check that validates a specific aspect of your network
2. **Suite** - A logical grouping of related tests
3. **Gate** - A high-level collection of suites and/or tests that represent a complete validation scenario


## Contributing

Please note that this project is under active development and the API may evolve. We welcome all contributions and appreciate your interest in improving op-acceptor!

### Adding a new test/suite/gate
All tests, suites, and gates are defined in a `validators.yaml` file. The filename is not important.
For an example `validators.yaml`, see [example-validators.yaml](./example-validators.yaml).

**Gate**
A gate is a collection of suites and/or tests that represent a complete validation scenario. A gate can inherit from one or more other gates.

```yaml
# Example gate definition
- id: alphanet
  description: "Alphanet validation gate"
  inherits: ["localnet"]
  suites:
    - id: interop
      description: "Interop suite"
      tests:
        - id: TestInteropSystem
```

**Suite**
A suite is a collection of tests that validate a specific aspect of your network. It's a convenience mechanism for grouping tests together.

```yaml
# Example suite definition
- id: interop
  description: "Interop suite"
  tests:
    - id: TestInteropSystem
```

**Test**
A test is a single check that validates a specific aspect of your network.
A description is optional.
A package is optional. If not provided, the test will be searched for. This lengthens the runtime, so we recommend providing the package.
If a package is provided and no name is provided, op-acceptor runs all tests in the package.

```yaml
# Run test 'TestInteropSystem' in package 'github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop'
- name: TestInteropSystem
  description: "Test the interop system"
  package: github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop
```

```yaml
# Run all tests in package 'github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop'
- package: github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/kurtosis-devnet/tests/interop
```

## Development

### Prerequisites
* [Go](https://go.dev/dl/) 1.22+
* [Just](https://just.systems/)

### Getting Started
Build the binary:
```bash
just build
```

Run tests:
```bash
just test
```

Run op-acceptor:
```bash
DEVNET_ENV_URL=devnets/alpaca-devnet.json # path to the devnet manifest
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \                  # The gate to run
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \       # Path to the directory containing your tests
  --validators validators.yaml \    # Path to the validator definitions
```

By default, op-acceptor will run tests once and then exit, which is ideal for CI/CD pipelines and one-off testing.

If you want to run tests periodically (for continuous monitoring), specify a run interval:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \
  --validators validators.yaml \
  --run-interval 1h                # Run tests every hour
```

By default, op-acceptor sets the `DEVNET_EXPECT_PRECONDITIONS_MET` environment variable. This instructs [devnet-sdk](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/tree/develop/devnet-sdk) to make tests fail if preconditions are not met, rather than skip. If you wish to bypass this and instead allow tests to skip when preconditions are not met, use the `--allow-skips` flag:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \
  --validators validators.yaml \
  --allow-skips                    # Allow tests to skip when preconditions aren't met
```

Want to monitor your validation runs? Start our local monitoring stack:
```bash
just start-monitoring  # Launches Prometheus and Grafana alongside op-acceptor
```


### Log Management

By default, test output from all tests is saved to log files, while only test results summaries are shown in the terminal. This makes the output much more manageable, especially when running many tests.

Test logs are saved under the log directory path, in a directory named based on the run ID. The default log directory is `logs`, but you can specify a custom location:

```bash
go run cmd/main.go \
  --gate interop \
  --testdir ../../optimism/ \
  --validators validators.yaml \
  --logdir /path/to/logs          # Custom log directory
```

For each test run, the following outputs are generated in the logs directory:

1. Individual test log files in `logs/testrun-{run-id}/tests/`
2. Summary of the test run in `logs/testrun-{run-id}/summary.log`
3. Combined log of all tests in `logs/testrun-{run-id}/all.log`
4. Failed test logs in `logs/testrun-{run-id}/failed/`
5. Raw Go test events in `logs/testrun-{run-id}/raw_go_events.log` (in the format of `go test -json`)

In CI environments, you can easily access all failed test logs with:
```bash
cat /path/to/logs/testrun-*/failed/*
```

### Create a release
Releases are created by pushing tags which triggers a CircleCI pipeline.
One simply needs to create an annotated tag (with a semantic version) and push it.
Note that the CircleCI workflow will require manual approval before it will publish the new release.

```
# Determine the latest version
git tag -l --sort=-v:refname | grep op-acceptor

# Set you target version (increase the latest appropriately)
# and add a useful summary
VERSION=v0.1.6
SUMMARY="Some useful summary of changes"

# Tag your release
git tag -a op-acceptor/$VERSION -m "$SUMMARY"
git push origin op-acceptor/$VERSION
```

Finally, approve the hold on the 'release' workflow in [CircleCI](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/ethereum-optimism/infra)

### Future Development
We track our public roadmap and issues on [Github](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/infra/issues). Feel free to:
* Submit bug reports
* Propose new features
* Contribute improvements
* Join discussions

Your feedback and contributions help make op-acceptor better for everyone!
